
The bash Shell is the program that understands the commands - it is also called the python terminal
Most linux distributions use the Bash Shell
Tcsh Shell
terminal emulator is the terminal that will be used for the class
Ctrl + A go to the start of the command line
Ctrl + E go the the end of the line
up and down goes through the commands you already made
Ctrl + shift + V how to paste 
Shift + C is how to copy 
Terminal emulator runs through file, edit' view' search, terminal, and help 
shell prompt- it allows you to type a command. if you write a command it will go away 
If the prompt starts with a pound sign it means you are the super user
If the prompt starts with a dollar sign you are a secondary user 
Root allows you to do anything. Never use a root user 
The damage that root does is unrecoverable
Command History- saves a list of all the commands you type
Basic Terminology- package, libary, Dependency, Repository
cars.exe is a package that contains libaries, text, codes, binaries
Dependency- a piece of software that depends on another software to run
FTP- stores files and allows any user to acess them - Repositories 
Ubuntu has 4 main repositories nothing downloade from here contains a virus it is expected to work as normal
Libary- reusable code that can be used 
Linux runs off of Debian
The file with an ext. of .deb is a debian extension
Dpkg is a low level tool. is a main tool. It works in the back end and shouldnt be used by the user.
Wrapper tools go look for the software and the dependcies 
APT- Advanced Package Tool is used for installing tools 
apt- can do installation resuming 
cat/etc/apt/sources.list- contains the least amount of software available
sudo- allows you to gain administartor power 
apt- is used to manage software
update- is used to download package information from all configured sources 
;- terminates every command with a ;
upgrade- is the package that installs the new version
how to install software- sudo + apt + install + package
In the terminal you can remove programs and add programs in the same command line

PPA's- allows you to install software in the program
How to add PPA- sudo add-apt-repository 

You can install a .deb file with gdebi 
Gdebi- is the simple tool to install deb files.

Snapcraft- is the framework used to build your own snaps
You can have multiple snaps run the same command line

Flatpak- is a next generation technology for packaging 

Synaptic it allows you the entire power of the command line 

#The linux directory Structure
Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS)
directory = folder 
Linux always have a single file system tree, regaurdless of how many drives or storage devices are attached to the computer

/ = is the root of the file system. There are a bunch of file managers for linux.
Present working directory or current working directory is where you are working from the folder you are in.
home/jhon/downloads = home/ parent/ child directories 
absolute path to the file that is open open in the file path. Also called pathname. It makes it easy to navigate the file system. 

/Home = go to the home directory and go to your User home directory is 2 different folders.

#Commands to move around the file system
The cd command is used to change directory
The pwd command is used to display the current working directory
The Is command is used for displaying all the files inside a given directory
A Relative Path specifies the pathname starting from the current directory. Always start with a subdirectory. 
Relative path is useful when you are moving files that are sub folders of a main folder.

#The CD Command 
Changes the current working directory. In other words is moving you around.
The current working directory is a single dot.

#How to use the cd command?
cd.. is going take you 1 step back in the directory. 
If you type CD it always take you to the user home. 
Linux stores alot of valubles that changes constantly.